The project houses, yes. They were on the south
side of the campus and they were large buildings
and usually, I don't know how many youngsters,
probably 10 or 12. And usually it was a county
operation and sometimes a widow parent would
come, a mother usually, a woman. and do the cooking
and the kids brought canned stuff from home and so
forth and so on. They all seemed to have done well.
The ones I knew personally, of course my roommate
was from blackest land and whitest people,
Greenville. Greenville. And had a close friend
over there we used to visit. But I never did see, you
know, it was, It was like a military barracks in a
sense. You had all these guys, and I don't know how
they figured out where to study or what. And would,
quite often, would they live there four years?
This depends. Because some of them, a lot of them
had part-time jobs cleaning up the dorms. And
later on, I guess they could move into the military
units if they wanted to, and that would be part... I
was looking. I think my dad, I was an out-of-state
student for the first semester, and I think our
tuition was $50. The state, I think, was $25. All
right. Basic division, and then what was your next
assignment? Well, I worked with Coach Bryant when
he first came with academics, And Jerry Claverin
was their coach. Scholastic person. All right,
tell me as much as you can about... Claverin.
Bryant and the whole... Oh, listen, he was an
impressive guy. I guess you go through life, and of
course having been in the military, you see what I
consider good leadership. And I remember Willie
Zappalack brought him over there and introduced
him to me. And I looked at Coach Bryant, and he
looked at me, and I had the feeling that he could see
what I was saying, thinking, you know, like my dad
could. Boy, he could read me better than anybody I
ever saw. And he said, I'm glad to meet you. And 20
years later, I went to a reunion, opened the back
door, and Coach Bryant said, hi, bud. He said, I
never did thank you for all the help you gave me. I
wasn't paid or anything. Football ticket. Then
later on, when he left and Coach Myers was hired,
they wanted me to go part-time, which I did.
With Coach Bryant, you did what? You advised
athletes? Advised them. checked on their grades,
and we set up, I did with Bob Smith, set up a good
computer type system that teachers could just
fill out a card. You may have seen that later on, and
you just dropped it in the canvas. Can you imagine
what it'd be like today? Was that the first time
that had been done? Oh yeah. In fact, as I visited
over at Coach Rawls, he was another one that was
just He said, y'all do more for the regular
students over there than we do for athletes. And
Lance Hewlett had been over there a couple or three
years. And, you know, basic region had a lot. It was
ahead of its time. Probably, well, they've got it
running now in a different terminology, I guess.
All right. Well, we want to come back to Bryant.
Let's go back. Who started the basic division? Who
deserves the credit? I often would have to tell you
because I was working in the Veterans
Administration for the education in psychology,
and they kind of put this thing together as best I
could understand, and then later on they said,
well, we're going to close down the Veterans
Testing Service because the deal had run out with
the college. It is after the war, though, the basic
division. Yeah, 50 or 51. Okay. Alright, back to
Bryant. Describe Bryant physically. Big man.
Six feet? Well, I couldn't tell you that really. I
only talked to him a couple of times in his four
years here. But I was really impressed with the
caliber of kids that he had recruited. He had a bum
or two. He doesn't ever get credit for the
academics. Because Charlie Krueger, I had cut him
down to 12 hours, and he made 24 great ones, which
is... Then, of course, he was... Now, listen, he
went to high school in Caldwell. Mm-hmm. And was
going up to Tarleton, and they hired Willie
Zappalat to come here, and Charlie comes here.
Okay. Now, Bryant's first year, he had recruited a
ton of freshmen. because there was no limit. Yeah,
I've got that list. All right, in general,
academically, those... Well, outside of one or
two were good students. Dennis Gehring, of
course, had been out at Junction with me that
previous year. So I knew him. I knew his parents,
too. He was from San Marcos. And then they had,
let's see, the guy that started Church's Chicken.
When you see these guys 20 years later, it verifies
what you thought at the time. And I was in Foulboy.
Two that were already here one year when he came,
that played in, Gene Stallings and Drake Keith.
Did you ever work with either of them? Oh, yeah.
Well, they were good students. Their main sweat
was just making... coaches cutting the roster. I
remember Gene talking about that. Of course, I've
got a fondness for him, I always have. He was
awfully young when he came here. Alright, Coach
Claiborne, Jerry Claiborne, what were his
duties? Well, he was basically,
I don't know what area, they didn't have as many
coaches in those days, but I would imagine Bax or
someone. They lived over in Walton Hall, he and his
wife. But wasn't he the key person on the academic
part? He was the academic. I mean, that was, I gave
all the information to him and he'd come by. You
know, we had a good relationship and corresponded
for years. Conducted in tech and all over and
stopped by to see him one time up there when he was
out of his office. Did, in the, do you recall any
academic? Five beta kappa. I know he was, in
history if I'm not mistaken. Yes, and he had, Coach
Bryant used to give a suit of clothes to the highest
academic person on the ball court. He wanted four
years to grow. Coach said, I'm going to quit giving
this money. Of course, you can't. I guess that was
legitimate in those days, as long as you didn't
know about it. I guess today you couldn't do that,
could you? Oh, this is like the federal
government. They got their hands all over you. All
right. Any other academic prizes that you
remember? Oh, I remember D. Powell. And let's see,
the, I'm trying to think of the, Cawthorn, was he? I
almost have to go to a list. All right. Can you share
any near misses where somebody just barely got by?
Not until later. Okay. All right. So Coach Bryant
is here four years. Four years. And you're the
volunteer during that time. Right. So you're
helping athletics on top of your basic division
job. Right. and later on after he left and this was
maybe a year later I found out that he had wanted to
hire me full-time and Bertrand wouldn't let him
talk to me. Right now basic division during the
Bryant years was directed by John Bertrand and he
came about when? I couldn't tell you that because
that was all They put it over there in the Aggieland
Inn. And I was clear across campus at Bazell, kind
of like Snook was when I was a freshman. Where is it?
And Pearl Harbor, where is it? Okay, then,
did you stay in? Basic Division. Okay, right. And
then when Coach Myers came, and of course that was
an interesting story too, board had three
statements. You may have heard this story. No,
please share it. They had Eddie Erdelatz, Red
Sanders, and Jim Myers down here in the MSC at the
same time. Alright, so that's the head coach at the
Naval Academy at UCLA and Myers was Iowa State. And
that was the deal when the kids sent that telegram
that had all the signatures to Coach Meyer. They
hired him. What kid? The C. The CORE. The CORE here.
Yeah. As far as you're aware, who were the chief
decision makers? Couldn't tell you. Was it the
board? Well, I guess.
I was there in the MSC and saw every one of them. I
mean, that's I. I take a note on that. I don't know. I
can't even remember who was on the board because,
you know, that's like general so-and-so.
Describe Coach Meyer's style. Well, I was
personally fond of Meyer. One, he had children,
and I'm talking with, talking with him. He could
tell you, you know, when the kids were born and
changing diapers. He never got, you know, like
Gene did when he came out there and put that big old
office in there for the time. Now, let's see. So,
and Coach Myers comes in 1958. It was his first full
season. And we signed, I was at Junkie. They signed
114 freshmen. Of course, as far as I know, I came
back to campus, nobody had filled out
applications. It was kind of a... But then they
recommended me full-time, and I interviewed with
the athletic council, O.D. Butler. And then you
went full-time. Well, I talked. two courses in
education. It was four-fifths. Okay, and
describe your duties then. Well, it was one of
those nice things. I'm glad I had all the
experiences. Well, Bud will take care of this. You
know, all the books, all the course assignments,
checking on their academics.
We had an episode there. I can't remember. It might
have been with Hank or Fulberg or Coach Myers, the
little nurses over at the hospital were giving out
those little chits, you know, the authorized
absence, little white deals that they take to
claim. That may have been before your time. And
they put out a list, you know, remember at the end of
the week, and they put a lot of those athletes on
there. Got that shut down real good. Wait, the list
of? The authorized absence list came out, you
know, in a big old mimeograph, legal sign. Mm-hmm.
So there was a lot of, and of course we had athletes
scattered all over the campus.
Dormitories, I had the housing. Your
responsibilities were all sports. All sports,
all scholarship, but we didn't. And of course
football, numerically football would have been
by far the largest in number. What sports did we
have in those days? Track. Track was pretty big.
Basketball was, you know, wasn't too big, not like
it is today.
Swimming, golf, tennis.
You left corner wrong. Baseball. Chandler was,
you know, he was real good about taking care of his
kids. Shelby was, you know. All right, so as you go
over there, the head coaches were...
Charlie Thomas. No, not yet. Was he? Yeah. Ray
Putnam messed with the... Colonel Andy had
already retired? Oh, yeah. Okay, Charlie Thomas.
Then baseball. Chandler. Tom Chandler. Bo Bell, I
wasn't connected when Bo was over there. That was
in the early 50s, 51, 2, and 3, and of course mine.
Then basketball had the... Floyd. Yeah. And then
Shelby was the freshman coach. Which of those
coaches were most academically concerned? Well,
Shelby was when he was freshman coach. Charlie,
you know, I shouldn't say this, but you know
Charlie as well as I do, he'd rather be fishing
probably. But you had to keep it, you know,
Charlie, some guy would call him and tell him,
we've got this high jumper, jump six, five, which
was, you know, that wasn't even possible in those
days. And he'd check, he'd, called down to check
out a car and Chandler, I was sitting there and
Chandler said, Charlie, don't you think you ought
to call some of the coaches in this district and
see? Well, it was five.
But that was later, let's see, Edgar?
I don't know, that's when we got all those
sprinters that never hit a lick. They were really,
they were excellent high school, but they were
always hurt when they got here. All right, and once
you're over there full time. Then
the tutorial program, the evening thing, four
nights a week. All right, when did, was that, was
that a new, did the tutorial program start? When we
moved into Henderson. Describe that. Well, we
had, I employed tutors. And we were paying the
outrageous salary of $1.50. An hour? An hour. And I
had some of the best. Of course, they tend to group
together. They recommend a kid to you. He's first
class. I mean, there was never any question.
You're saying tutors recommended new tutors?
Mm-hmm. Okay. And we had English, mathematics,
and the sciences, both biology and chemistry. And
it was posted online. They knew what nights the
tutors would be there, and I'd go through
Henderson and get them down there. Of course, we'd
have a few that were over playing pool, but Coach
Myers kind of put it down. Miss Murphy was the house
mother, and the coaches were pretty tough on them.
Describe dormitory life in Henderson Hall. I'll
tell you one thing that I did, and you know, you look
back on these things and it's kind of funny today,
but I had two areas that I insisted that every
student take with electing. One was business law,
both courses, and the other one was old Bob Boone's
music appreciation. Now when those kids come in at
the beginning of the year, you could walk down the
hall You talk about the conglomerate of music, or
lack of music, as I used to joke, and then as they
move on down to junior year after they've had
Boone's course, and I told Bob this, I said, it just
did your heart good to see that after all we were
putting some class on, but they just never had been
exposed to it. Well, as you recall, what was their
favorite major? Engineering. That certainly
wasn't an easy one. It wasn't a pushover. Of course
we had the two Hargit's for instance. They were
just outstanding. I had one of them that played
quarterback in my class. I remember what grade he
made for me. He came in the dorm one night and just
looked like Death warmed over and I said, what's
the matter? And he said, I made 46 on that physics
test. And I said, what was the highest grade? 46. I
said, what are you worried about? And they were,
boy, they were mean in that basic physics and
engineering class. I often wondered if it
wouldn't be better to let them take it later. And I
did. On a lot of students, I wouldn't let them take
chemistry 101 until the second semester. You're
in a smaller class, you've got your better
teachers. That's how I worked anyway. What was
kind of the major of last resort? If they couldn't
make it in anything else, where did they go? I don't
really remember, because I didn't have We really
didn't have that many students. I think one time I
figured out we had, Myers was shocked. I compiled
some statistics sometime in his second or third
year. Hell, 85% of the kids were graduating. The
football. Of course, we weren't winning any
football. Of course, he knew that later.
Which sports had the highest graduation rate, you
think? Surprisingly, golf. Okay, I'm not
surprised. And Henry Ransom was about as loose
jointed as any coach I've ever met. He called me the
night before and said, will you want to take the
boys up to Arkansas? I said, not on short notice,
Henry. Don't do this.
What about some of the stunts or pranks that you
remember that they did in or around Henderson
Hall? Well, I just, they were pretty good because I
was over there usually from 7 till 9 or 9.30, just
depending on what was going on. I just never had any
difficulty. I was trying to think of this little
old guard, had his car parked out in that little
area back of the chapel. It was a little kind of a
driveway looking thing. He went out one morning
and his engine had been fanned out tonight. I wish I
could think of anything. He was from San Antonio.
This was done by some of his buddies? No, I think
somebody else. Oh, really? We used to have trouble
until Meeks and I got the school to come in and put
iron bars. They'd come through the steam tunnels
and come in down in the electrical stuff down in our
deal. That was really dangerous. You mentioned
Meeks. Tell me about that man. He was a classic. Of
course, I was especially fond of him because his
wife talked to my boys. And his, what's his full
name? I don't know. S.M. was all I knew. And you all
called him Monk. And his duties were? Everything
like mine is equipment, basically. But he was kind
of a father confessor. He and old Pickard both. And
he came over here about what, when? Came with
bones, so I guess that would be late. Late 50s. Oh,
yeah. Because I came, in the summer of 59, I taught
at Shriner in Kerrville before coming over here.
And I came over with his son. His older boy was
there. SM Junior was there. coach there and came
over and spent the night in Henderson Hall looking
for an apartment. So where did you find the
apartment? Well, we found a house out on Cindy Lane
across from Lynn the Shoe Factory for $85 a month,
which we thought was really high priced because I
made $5.50 a month for nine months. That was my job.
Well, you know, that was interesting. We were
talking about that on that college station thing.
When I finished school, I went over to Groveton to
interview a friend of mine who was head coach.
Three classes of history, three sports. And that
was $2,400. And they offered me this director of
the counseling center, $3,600. For 12 months,
man. $300 a month. And I thought, boy, that That was
something. All right, these other staff members
in athletics, who was the head trainer in the 50s?
Billy, I guess. Who? Billy Pickard. Billy
Pickard? Yeah. Before, now, Hank brought in a guy.
I'm trying to think. There's a policeman, or used
to be the spokesman for the Bryan Police
Department. He lived out on Luzia Lane. But he left
here and went to Tulane. He was a good trainer. And
who
was the business officer? Pat Dyle. Describe.
Well, Pat was, he was an unusual guy. I was really
overwhelmed at the tremendous job that he did with
tickets. I didn't, you know, not having been
exposed to that until I went to work full time and
you go down there See this little one, so much
bigger than this. All the tickets for all the
sports and the season passes. It wasn't that big an
operation. Now, who was the athletic director?
Well, Myers, I guess. I'm not sure if Myers was the
athletic director. I think Bones was brought in by
Brian. Now, you haven't given him his full name
yet. Who? Barlow. Barlow. Barlow, Bones, Earl.
You know, it goes through all this line. He came
from San Antonio, I believe, didn't he? Yeah, I
think Brian must have hired
him.
I guess that's about it. Small, I can remember the
day close to just before leaving when we had a
million dollar budget. Bones, that was a shock. As
far as you know, knew then, was the budget balanced
at Athletics Page? Oh yeah, they were in the black.
That's one thing Bones could do. And, you know, for
me to go and say, now this Tiff has been here a year, I
think he needs at least a quarter more raise. Now,
let me think about it. Well, I knew I had Bones.
Bones knew We were doing a good job in the academic
area, and I never had any problem with that.
Alright, on the athletic part, as you now look back
on it, what were the things that y'all were doing
that obviously... Guidance, real. We took a
guidance program that had been through the
Veterans Administration, through the basic
division, through the adjunct program, and took
the best parts of all of that. And it's the contact
with the student. They know you're there. They can
depend on you. And I always felt they had a feeling
that I wasn't gonna mess them up. And I had two or
three athletes like old Ken Tim and some of the
basketball, old dude, Doug McClain is McClain's
coach. Yeah. He was the best-read student we had in
the dormitory. Did you ever know that? He read all
the time. Now, I don't know if he didn't kill
himself on his textbooks, probably. But he came up
to me one time. I insisted the juniors go to the
Registrar's office and check their credits. I had
a running thing in the office. tried to apprise
him, particularly guys like dude, but he doesn't
pay attention. So he comes up his last, his senior
semester. Am I going to graduate? And I said, now,
dude, did you go there? No. Did you go this year? No.
I said, well, you lack about 15, 16 more credits.
No, I guess it was 24 to to graduate. Well, he stayed
over at Stallings, you remember, and did a good
job. Went to law school. Let me tell you my favorite
one. He took my Old South Advanced History course,
and you had to do a term paper. And when I got to his
term paper, Harry, what's his name? No, go ahead.
This dude, McLean. Oh, yeah. Dude. And he turned in
a term paper, and I started reading it. And each
paragraph began with quotation marks and ended
with quotation marks. There was not a single
grammatical error. Everything, every paragraph
had a footnote. But none of the paragraph, and
there was a long bibliography, and all,
everything, but None of the paragraphs had any
particular relationship to any of the other
paragraphs. And so I put an F on it, passed it out,
and with a note, come see me. He came in and I said,
dude, explain this to me. He said, well, as you can
probably see, that's not my work. And I said, oh. He
said, I put it off until the last minute. And I then
went to the library and checked out about two dozen
books. And I just put marks on various pages and
told the secretary to type those up and take the
first paragraph on each page. And I thought maybe
that you would be in a hurry and you'd just glance at
it and give me a grade. And I said, well, you know,
I've got to give you an F. And he said, I'm not
surprised at all. And he grinned and went on. And we
both chuckled about it. I told him, I said, dude,
I'll probably tell this story a good many times. He
did the same thing to Charlie McCandless. Is that
right? No, no. As you know, Dr. McCandless.
This was Charles Gaddon's course, 426. Charles
McCandless. Charles McCandless. And I go over
there, and he hands me this thing, and I look at the
bibliography. It was a paper just like that. I
looked at the bibliography, and looked at the
front, the table, contents, and everything. And
then I got to thumbing through it, and I said, I
wonder where he got it. It was my paper.
I don't know where. Maybe... I'm sure it wasn't in
the old boys' file because we didn't keep stuff
like that. You mentioned Hargetts. Who are some
others you look back on with great pride as being
proud to have worked with them? You get in Jeff
Andrick, the insurance guy here. Lloyd Curry. I
mean, guys, well, Currington had to work hard.
There was a kid from Kern, Franklin.
I really can't. Ellison, I gave him a Bible for
graduation because he was big. Carter? Carter
Franklin. His highest test score on any of his
tests at admission was a 4%. He was an honor. He won
the graduate fellowship that they gave. At the
same time, I said, what did you do with, he got a set
of encyclopedias, gave them to his daughter, I
mean to his sister who was at Baylor, one of the
junior colleges. We correspond spasmodically
now, but those guys are in their 60s.
But old dude, he was one that he and Ken Timmons, I
finally talked to him.